# Project-1-Food-Hub

The number of restaurants in New York is increasing day by day. Lots of students and busy professionals rely on those restaurants due to their hectic lifestyles. Online food delivery service is a great option for them. It provides them with good food from their favorite restaurants. A food aggregator company FoodHub offers access to multiple restaurants through a single smartphone app.

The app allows the restaurants to receive a direct online order from a customer. The app assigns a delivery person from the company to pick up the order after it is confirmed by the restaurant. The delivery person then uses the map to reach the restaurant and waits for the food package. Once the food package is handed over to the delivery person, he/she confirms the pick-up in the app and travels to the customer's location to deliver the food. The delivery person confirms the drop-off in the app after delivering the food package to the customer. The customer can rate the order in the app. The food aggregator earns money by collecting a fixed margin of the delivery order from the restaurants.

Objective
The food aggregator company has stored the data of the different orders made by the registered customers in their online portal. They want to analyze the data to get a fair idea about the demand of different restaurants which will help them in enhancing their customer experience. Suppose you are hired as a Data Scientist in this company and the Data Science team has shared some of the key questions that need to be answered. Perform the data analysis to find answers to these questions that will help the company to improve the business.

Analysis of data of different orders made by registered customers of a food aggregator company from their online portal. To have a fair idea of the demand of different
restaurants which will help enhance their customer experience

Tools Used
•	Python for data analysis
•	Numpy library for computation
•	Seaborn library for informative statistical graphs
•	Matplotib for interactive visualizations

Analysis Performed
•	Debugging to efficiently identify and fix errors
•	Analyze data to get a fair idea about the demand of different restaurants to enhance their customer experience
•	Review cuisine preference of New York customers
•	Determine the cost of ordered food
•	Understand the volume of the orders over weekdays and weekends
•	Estimate the revenue generated by the company
•	Help the company to take decision on promotional offers
•	Order rating analysis

Insights
•	Around 80% of the orders are for American, Japanese, Italian and Chinese cuisines thus FoodHub integration should be focused on restaurants serving these food cuisine
•	Order volumes increase on the weekends compared to the weekdays and  therefore incentives should be put in place so that more delivery drivers are available over the weekend
•	Delivery time over the weekends is less compared to the weekdays. This could be due to the dip in traffic volume over the weekends.
•	Around 11% of the total orders have more than 60 minutes of total delivery time. FoodHub should try to minimize such instances in order to avoid customer dissatisfaction and some reward to the punctual delivery persons
•	Around 11% of the total orders have more than 60 minutes of total delivery time. FoodHub should try to minimize such instances in order to avoid customer dissatisfaction. 
•	There is a direct correlation between delivery time and customer dissatisfaction, around 11% of the total orders hae more than 60 minutes total delivery time, instances of this should be minimimized to avoid customer dissatisfaction
